README.md, before:

# <a href="https://www.apollographql.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/841294/53402609-b97a2180-39ba-11e9-8100-812bab86357c.png" height="100" alt="React Apollo"></a>

## React Apollo

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/react-apollo.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/react-apollo)
[![Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/react-apollo.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/react-apollo)
[![Join the community on Spectrum](https://withspectrum.github.io/badge/badge.svg)](https://spectrum.chat/apollo)

> ⚠️ **Deprecation Notice** ⚠️
>
> Please note that as of version 4.0.0, the React Apollo project has been deprecated. `@apollo/react-hooks` and `@apollo/react-testing` functionality is now available directly from the `@apollo/client` package (refer to the [Apollo Client 3 migration guide](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) for more details). Both packages still work as is, but their functionality is now re-exported from `@apollo/client`. If you're only using hooks, we recommend using the hooks from `@apollo/client` directly, and dropping your React Apollo dependency(ies). React Apollo's `graphql` HOC and render proper components are now in maintenance mode, meaning they will continue to receive important bug fixes, but will not be updated with new functionality.

React Apollo allows you to fetch data from your GraphQL server and use it in building complex and reactive UIs using the React framework. React Apollo may be used in any context that React may be used. In the browser, in React Native, or in Node.js when you want to do server-side rendering.

## Documentation

All Apollo Client documentation, including React Apollo usage articles and helpful recipes, lives on [https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/)

For the React Apollo API reference, visit [https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/react-apollo.html](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/react-apollo.html)

## Maintainers

- [@benjamn](https://github.com/benjamn) (Apollo)
- [@hwillson](https://github.com/hwillson) (Apollo)

Commit message:

Update deprecation notice to be more specific (and less scary)

README.md, after:

# <a href="https://www.apollographql.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/841294/53402609-b97a2180-39ba-11e9-8100-812bab86357c.png" height="100" alt="React Apollo"></a>

## React Apollo

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/react-apollo.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/react-apollo)
[![Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/react-apollo.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/react-apollo)
[![Join the community on Spectrum](https://withspectrum.github.io/badge/badge.svg)](https://spectrum.chat/apollo)

> ⚠️ **Deprecation Notice** ⚠️
>
> Please note that as of version 4.0.0 you should prefer to import React hooks and testing utilities from `@apollo/client`. While we still have separate `@apollo/react-hooks` and `@apollo/react-testing` packages for ease of migration, they are no longer under active development, as they simply re-export from `@apollo/client`. React Apollo's `graphql` HOC (`@apollo/react-hoc`) and render proper components (`@apollo/react-components`) are in maintenance mode, meaning they will continue to receive important bug fixes, but will not be updated with new functionality.

React Apollo allows you to fetch data from your GraphQL server and use it in building complex and reactive UIs using the React framework. React Apollo may be used in any context that React may be used. In the browser, in React Native, or in Node.js when you want to do server-side rendering.

## Documentation

All Apollo Client documentation, including React Apollo usage articles and helpful recipes, lives on [https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/)

For the React Apollo API reference, visit [https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/react-apollo.html](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/react-apollo.html)

## Maintainers

- [@benjamn](https://github.com/benjamn) (Apollo)
- [@hwillson](https://github.com/hwillson) (Apollo)
